Next let's dive in and create their actual
web sockets, did everybody get this far?
Otherwise you're gonna have a bad time
>> There's a couple people reporting that,
they're getting a permission denied for
the public key,
when the SSH public key could not
read from the remote repository.
>> That's strange, that's public yeah it
could be you don't have your SSH key set
up for Git, not everybody does.
So if that's the case, you can use HTTPS
and then use your username password.
But if you have two-factor auth, it won't
work for that, which is why we use SSH for
everything.
So if you're running through an error for
public key that's probably it,
your SSH key isn't working correctly.
Or it may not be set up on
your actual home machine,
if you've never used GitHub before.
Okay.
And if you clone that repo,
you'll see we did exactly that, and
here's where the web socket
server things come in.
I'm gonna drag this off to the side so I
can remember what I did, cuz I don't have
this stuff remembered off the top of
my head, I'm not that smart I'm sorry.
But let's walk through it together,
cuz I want everybody to
understand what we're doing here.
So let's get move that off over here,
we're gonna jump back into our repo here,
assuming your application is working.
So this is the server we're gonna be
using for the rest of the day, and
we're gonna use it to
write a database as well.
So I wanna make sure my code is
segmented in a way that makes sense,
it is reasonable.
So I'm just gonna say
/** Begin websockets.
And remember, you won't remember
most of the stuff later.
So it's always good to either comment or
code, or leave some breadcrumbs for
yourself to be, okay I went through
this step and I went through this step,
I went through this step.
So let's start with a WebSocket,
we will need one library for
this because believe me,
you do not want to write a WebSocket
by hand, it's not that fun.
We're gonna use a library and
it's really basic,
it's called WS a straightforward
as it can get.
So let's say npm i ws,
it's just a WebSocket server it'll
make dealing WebSockets much easier.
So once you have that installed,
let's create the actual WebSocket server.
So we'll say const the real original
name WebSocketServer equals require ws,
and we want to server from ws.
And then we wanna actually
give that connection a name,
so we're gonna say const wss
equals a new WebSocketServer.
And the server is just gonna be
the server that we created above.
And this server is just this server,
we're just saying attach the WebSocket to
the server we created
with express earlier.
Next WebSocket has this idea of, or
has this concept of different states
very similar to an HTTP request.
But we want to do actions when
the WebSocket actually connects,
So to do that we're gonna use listeners.
I'm gonna say WebSocket on initial
connection to the minute somebody
connects to our server from a browser,
we wanna do something.
So we wanna make a respond
with a function.
And I close it off early, there we go.
And the function won't really,
it's gonna take in
Wss Or wait no sorry,
I missed one it's a connection,
and then it's gonna take in ws
the WebSocket library itself.
That'll just make it easier to
parse through a little bit later,
close it off I love syntax highlighting.
Okay so we created a listener,
we created a WebSocket server attached
to our Express server, we gave it
a function called connection that will run
every time it connects to a new server.
We could have written this differently,
we could have made this its own
const function, but just as easy.
Next what do we want to happen,
whenever someone connects our web server?
Why don't we just log in and say,
hey someone connect to our web server.
So we're gonna create a shortcut,
there's something called,
within the WebSocket server
there's some data, and
one of those is clients,
and one of those is size.
That's just the number of clients we have
currently connected to our web server.
So let's assign this to a variable,
and we'll call it numClients.
And when something happens,
it's good to know what's going on.
Otherwise we would never know
what's happening to our server,
if we don't log it.
So let's create a log, and
we'll just say clients connected.
And I'll just pass in the numClients.
So this just means every time someone
connects, it'll just say this person
connected, we have ten clients,
we have one client, we have 1,000.
Just lets us know in our log,
what's going on.
So now we can use a special command
called the broadcast command.
And the broadcast command is pretty cool,
because it's gonna send a message
to everybody connected.
So rather than us having to iterate
through every single client,
broadcast will do that for us.
So just for this exercise,
I want every time someone connects
I want everybody to know about it.
So we're gonna say broadcasts
The current visitors
And we'll just say numClients,
and we'll just add
a little colon there,
just to make it look nice.
So we created a function that's gonna
handle a connection that every time
someone connects, it's going to broadcast
out to everybody that's connected,
the number of clients we have.
So we still need to handle a few states,
so a socket can be open, close or errored.
We need to handle these different states,
so we wanna, we don't need to handle them.
But it's good to do something when
a WebSocket connects just to prove it's
connected.
Now this is where we can
get super creative, but for
this demo we'll keep it really simple.
So we're gonna say WebSocket on, or
we're actually gonna pull from ws
here because these are steady states.
And we see closed open, so
we'll say open or by mistake ready state,
which is just saying what's the state
of the WebSocket, when that equals
Ws.OPEN this is an if.
We're just gonna send a message to that
one client that's connected,
welcome to my server
So in this case, we're reading from
the web, the WS library itself,
which is attached to
every single connection.
WS is gonna have a state for
every connection,
and we're just gonna pull from that
enum of different connection states.
We're gonna use the open one, so
when a WebSocket connects and it's open,
we're gonna send to the client
welcome to my server.
And when that connection closes,
so we'll say on close, so
when a client closes out,
give the function we'll call it close.
We don't need to name it, but
is just good for logging later to name
your functions now keep them anonymous.
We're just gonna say console.log,
a client has disconnected.
And if we wanna add a little bit more
spice, we can broadcast that the client is
disconnected to all
the clients if we want.
That's about it, however I did make
a mistake, I keep getting excited and
I jumped ahead of myself.
We have to write the broadcast function,
that's not something that exists.
So normally if you want
to talk to every client,
you have to say WebSocket.each, and
you have to iterate through them.
Why don't we just make a function
that does that for us and
we'll just call it broadcast,
which is the function we already used.
So we'll define it here,
we'll attach it to wss.
That equals a function.
And we'll call it broadcast,
cuz it's good to name our functions, and
broadcast is gonna take
some sort of input or data.
So now we say clients,
it's an interval so we can say each or
for each, and
that takes a function as well.
And each, again we don't have to name it,
we just do for
each clients whatever we wanna do.
Now what we're gonna do
is use that send command.
We're gonna say clients, send
Whatever data we have and
that's it, and that's a lot.
Writing a quick function is a lot faster,
than trying to do wss clients each time.